21
  of 28 
1 arrival. You did not confirm any of the previous assigned roles, which were assigned prior to your arrival. 
3 2 arrival. You You confirmeddelayed in confirming the previously assigned roles, which were assigned prior to your arrival.  the previously assigned roles, which were assigned prior to your 
Confirmation of previous role assignments 4 incident.You were prompt in confirming the previously assigned roles, which were assigned prior to your 
3 2 1 You You You confirmeddelayed in confirmingdid not confirmthat an Appropriate Risk Assessment was carried out. if an Appropriate Risk Assessment was carried out at any time during the  if an Appropriate Risk Assessment was carried out. 
Confirmation of risk assessments 4 You timeconfirmed.  that an Appropriate Risk Assessment was carried out at the most appropriate 
3 2 1 You You were You confirmedfailed to confirmslow to confirm the current hazards which had been identified, prior to your arrival.  what current hazards had already been identified, prior to your arrival.  what current hazards had already been identified, prior to your arrival. 
Level 2 &3 - Assessment criteria (EFSM2 Confirmation of hazards 
4 You clearly confirmed the current hazards which had been identified, prior on your arrival. – SC, GC, DAC and AC) 
assessment criteria 
protocols.– level 2 
Appendix 2: Incident command 
4 3 
2 1 
You protocols.You 
You protocols.You 
clearly confirmedconfirmed
delayed in confirmingfailed to confirm the action taken to date was compliant with relevant legislation and protocols.  the action taken to date was compliant with relevant legislation and 
that the action taken to date was compliant with relevant legislation and 
the action taken to date was compliant with relevant legislation and 
Confirmation of previous actions Information Gathering 
Official Policy number: PN986-ORPc
----------------Page (0) Break----------------
22
  of 28 
incident. 2 1 
escalation of incident. You were You failed to anticipateslow to anticipate any future resource needs and did not consider the possible escalation of  any future resource needs. 
4 3 You possibility of an escalation of the incident. You anticipated and correctly identifiedanticipatedthe likely future resource needs, including the consideration of a possible  the likely future resource needs, considering the Resource evaluation 
resource availability and existing incident management. Incident Evaluation 
2 1 You were deployment, resource availability and existing incident management. You did not gather any informationslow or failed to obtain sufficient information regarding the incident's progress, risks, deployment,  on the incident's progress, risks, 3 
deployment, resource availability and existing incident management. You obtained availability and existing incident management. sufficient information on the incident's progress, risks, deployment, resource Information gathering 
1 4 You You obtained failed to determinesufficient information from all available sourcesthe involvement of any other Agency at the incident. on incident progress, risks, 
4 3 2 You You You quickly determineddetermineddelayed in determining the involvement of other Agencies at the incident. the involvement of other Agencies at the incident. the involvement of any other Agency at the incident. Determine involvement of other agencies
1 You incident. did not determinethe sufficiency andsuitability of the resources already in attendance at the 2 
the incident.You at the incident. incorrectly determined the sufficiency and suitability of the resources already in attendance 
4 3 You attendance at the incident. You quickly andcorrectly determinedcorrectly determined the sufficiency andsuitability of the resources already in attendance at the sufficiency andsuitability of the resources already in 
Official Determine suitability and sufficiency of resources Policy number: PN986-ORPc
----------------Page (1) Break----------------
23
  of 28 
3 2 1 After taking over You You delayed in confirmingfailed to confirmyou confirmed at any time, the objectives and priority actions for resolution of incident.  the objectives and priority actions for resolution of incident.  the objectives and priority actions for resolution of incident. 
Confirm priority actions and objectives4 After taking over resolution of incident. you were prompt and clear in confirming the objectives and priority actions for Objective Setting and Planning 
1 You local community and other agencies roles and responsibilities failed to evaluatethe implications of the incident on the organisation, the environment, the 2 
community and other agencies roles and responsibilities You the incident.evaluated the implications on most of the interested parties, which were involved with 
4 3 You environment, the local community and other agencies roles and responsibilities You evaluated and fully consideredevaluated the implications of the incident on the organisation, the environment, the local  the implications of the incident on the organisation, the Evaluation of impact on the organisation and others 
1 You supported your decision making. did not obtain any technical or professional advice from any source, which may have 2 
decision making.You supported your decision making. were slow to obtain any technical or professional advice from sources, which may have 
4 3 You used it to help support your decision making. You were thorough in gaining technical / professional advice from suitable sourcesobtained technical and professional advice from suitable sources to help support your and Obtained professional advice to help evaluate 
1 You adequate and timely control measures were implemented. failed to anticipate the key risksto Health, Safety and Welfare and failed to ensure 2 
measures were implemented.You were adequate and timely control measures were implemented. slow to anticipate the key risks to Health, Safety and Welfare and failed to ensure 
4 3 You timely control measures were implemented. You clearly anticipated the Major risksanticipated the risks to Health, Safety and Welfare and ensured adequate and timely control to Health, Safety and Welfare, ensuring adequate and 
Official Risk evaluation Policy number: PN986-ORPc
----------------Page (2) Break----------------
24
  of 28 
1 You failed to establish or lost command during the incident. 3 2 
qualities ensuring that you were You You maintained good commandfailed to establish firm command during the incident. constantly seen as being in command of the crew throughout the incident. . Effective command 
1 4 You You failed to establishquickly established effective command of all crews / Sectors or lost control of the Incident. , displaying leadership 3 2 
incident.You You maintained good controlfailed to establish firm control of the Incident.  of the incident. Control of the incident 
1 4 You You failed to declareestablished / asserted effective control that you were assuming command. of the incident and maintained it throughoutthe 
3 2 You assumed command at the You declared that you were assuming command information or at an inappropriate stageappropriate time. without first gathering the appropriate , having first gained some information. 
Assuming command 4 You declared that you were assuming command at the the necessary information. appropriate time, having first gathered all Command and Control 
2 1 You employed You failed to employinappropriate but safe a safe system of work. systems of work.3 
considerationYou employed the identified risks of the incident. an appropriate of the identified risks of the incident.safe system of work, which is based upon full consideration of Safe systems of work 
1 4 You formulated an You employed the most appropriateinappropriate action plan safe system of work, which is based upon to deal with the incident.full 2 
elementsYou formulated an action plan, which effectively deal with a key dimensionof the incident.fails to deploy the appropriate resources. , or to 
4 3 You formulated a which deal with You formulated an action plan, all elementscomprehensive / flexible action plan of the incident in a methodical way. deploying the appropriate resourcesdeploying the appropriate resources, , which deal with the major 
Official Action planning Policy number: PN986-ORPc
----------------Page (3) Break----------------
25
  of 28 
1 You failed to provide a senior officer briefing which was accurate. 3 2 You carried out a You carried out a briefing of the senior officer, which satisfactory senior officer briefing. lacked detail. 
Senior officer briefing 1 4 You You carried out a failed to transmitclear, concise, comprehensive and effective the Tactical Mode of operation to any Personnel.  senior officer briefing. 
4 3 2 You You You transmittedtransmittedfailed to transmit the Tactical Mode of Operation to the Tactical Mode of Operation  the Tactical Mode of operation regularly andeffectivelyAll personnel. regularly to All Personnel. to Allpersonnel.Transmitting tactical mode 
2 1 You You established but failed to maintainfailed to establish effective communication with people. communication with people.
4 3 You confirmedYou established and maintained effective communicationestablished and maintained satisfactory communication with people using the correct methods of communication.  that is  with people. accurate, complete and Communication with people 
1 You failed to manage crisis. Communications 
4 3 2 You dealt with crisis situations You managed crisis You were ineffectiveappropriately in managing a crisis situation. efficiently. in a calm controlledmanner.Crisis management 
2 1 You You failed to usefailed to use Command Support. Command Support effectively. 
4 3 You resourcesYou established and interactedused Command Support . effectivelywith Command Support . effectively, making full use of its Use of command support 
2 1 You You consideredfailed to considerthe span of control but  delegating the span of control. failed to limit/sectorise appropriately. 
4 3 You command structure in good time. You accurately assessedconsidered span of control and the required span of control and assessed the need to limit/sectorise. put in place an appropriate
Official Delegating spans of control Policy number: PN986-ORPc
----------------Page (4) Break----------------
26
  of 28 
1 You did not actively monitor the progress of activity during the incident against your plan. 
3 2 You You your plan.monitored the progressdid not adequately monitor of activity during the incident and  the progress of activity during the incident to compare against compared this against your plan. 
Actively monitor the progress of activity against your plan4 You updatedcontinually monitored your plan where necessary.  the progress of activity during the incident and compared and 2 1 
the incident.You carried out You failed to reviewan ineffective review the Risk Assessment.  of the Risk Assessment. 
4 3 You changesYou continually reviewed and modifiedreviewed and modified in the nature and extent of the incident.  the risk assessment to respond to changes in the nature and extent of the risk assessment and rapidly responded to Review of risk assessment 
2 1 You You failed to updatefailed to update the Tactical Mode. the Tactical Mode as required. 
Update of tactical mode4 3 You You updatedupdated the Tactical Mode  the Tactical Mode quickly and effectivelyas required. . 
Official Review Policy number: PN986-ORPc
----------------Page (5) Break----------------
